
Although data scientists basically do have enough fields to get involved with, however, there is not always enough payment capability in every field, that makes the field interesting for an (comparably expensive) data scientists. E.g. image recognition is a widely used data science technique, but currently there are no killer applications for image recognition, ONLY. Often image recognition remains a helper function. For instance recognizing the traffic signs is just a auxiliary service in autonomously driving vehicles (, which i.m.h.o. would be realized much easier by a digital database mirroring the real world traffic signs.) Or AI painting in Picasso style is nice, but no one pays 100'000 €/ $ for that. (Which might change, when authors could use a trained image AI to tell a story as graphic novel/ comic. But I have not seen this, yet.)     

Signal data - although currently rarely covered by data scientist - seems to be a promising activity field. A lot of technical sensors deliver data in amplitude-frequency-format (, where frequency refers to oscillation not density, here). And - which is highly relevant - the amplitude-frequency-data is the key driver for completely new products. E.g. the mass spectrometry - the identification and weigthing of chemcial substances - is for sure a killer application worth a lot of 100'000 and even millions of €/ $! 

Scientific excourse
In a mass spectrometer a sample of chemical substances gets radiated by a certain electromagnetic radiation. To keep this simple an stupid. When a electromagnetic photon interferes with an electron, the electron first captures energy of the photon for a moment, jumps to a higher electron orbital (because it has more energy now), then mostly falls back to the old electron orbital and emits the energy difference (between the high and low orbital) as new photon. Each chemical atom and molecule has a certain electron orbital configuration and each electron orbital configuration has a certain energy level. So, when a formerly in frequency approximately uniform distributed photon beam gets out of the sample again, it has significant cumulations in frequency, that directly refer to eletron orbital configurations in the sample. They are also called the spectral lines of the substance. Most electron spectral lines are located in UV light spectum (UV spectroscopy) and in the infrared light spectrum (infrared spectroscopy). The electron spectral lines are also reason, why we can identify habitable planets with the hubble telescope or the new James Webb telescope, at all. When a planet gets in front the local system's sun, a lot of broad band light gets passed through the atmosphere of the planet and delivers the spectral lines of nitrogen, oxygen and water steam to us, if they are present in the planet's atmosphere.

However, currently these lab tasks are predominantly covered by chemists, physicists and electric engineers. To get a step in the door a data scientist needs to offer at least a basic signal lab expertise. Which is the motivation for this course. 

The course (w.i.p.) - as usual in lab work - will contain a series of practice measuring experiments, an interested data scientist can perform on his own. The course (w.i.p.) is designed to generate a basic understanding of signal data by performing the measuring experiments and a simple data analysis from scratch. The course does NOT identify/ weight any real world chemical substance mixtures. It will just work with simple one-substance-samples. And especially the course is not suitable to build a competitive functional spectrometer, or alike.    

You find the required equipment in the signal_lab_course_equipment_list. When buying efficient the whole signal lab course equipment - including a new chinese 200 MHZ digital oscilloscope, a 2nd hand scintillator and the safety-transformers - will be about 1000 €/ $. However, buying 2nd hand takes some time. Thus, the equipment list is published very early. Otherwise, when ad-hoc buying new big brand quality you will not have any problems to spend 5000 €/ $ on this. A commercial application ready spectrometer starts about 100'000 €/ $. Thus, the from scratch approach is the best an interested data scientist can get, so far.    

Cave: Color coated equipment usually is __not__ suitable for spectroscopy. Otherwise you will get additional spectral lines of the coating. Further, a 110% cleaning of the spectroscopy apparatus is a absolute must! Unfortunately, this is especially true for (uncoated) brandnew metal equipment, because almost any industrial metal processing - e.g. rolling metal to a thin sheet - requires a gliding wax, which usually remains on the end-product. So you need clean the new equipment, before it is ready to use for spectroscopy. Specifically the lamp/ radiation source, the reflector and everything on the radiation source - sample - scintillator path is absolutely critical. When building from scratch you need to disassemble these critical parts and place them in an appropriate cleaning solution over night. In XRF spectroscopy - to a much lower degree, however - also the metal encasing and the apparatus scafffold are relevant. So, if you do not like cleaning, you might be wrong here. :-D       

The course is currently scheduled to start in the beginning of November 2024. The course is offered as best effort and there have to be 10 interested students at minimum. So, I cannot provide a guaranty, that it effectively will take place. However, there is a lot scintillator measurument material on the internet, you could use instead of the course. So you are granted a great idea for a new data science job role/ business, anyway! 


